---
layout: post
title: "Foliager: A foliage generation pipeline"
description: "A foliage generation pipeline for Unreal Engine. Masters project focusing on implementing computer graphics, machine learning, and ecological formulas to generate scientifically accurate and realistic forests."
date: 2024-04-12
feature_image: images/forest.jpg
tags: [unreal, masters]
---

Photo by [Nejc Košir](https://www.pexels.com/photo/green-leafed-tree-338936/) (For now... I'll have demo pics very soon!)

A foliage generation pipeline for Unreal Engine, `foliager` is my masters project focusing on implementing computer graphics, machine learning, and ecological formulas to generate scientifically accurate and realistic forests. As I get further into this project, I'll post updates here! 

---

This project was inspired by my work done during my time as a flight simulation intern at Acubed. There's a couple of key parts to it:

# Choose your trees
This program prompts the user to decide what kind of forest they want to generate, and where they want the types of trees to come from. Foliager uses GPT to parse through user input and determine what kinds of data needs to be collected in order to generate the desired forest. For example, you could say:

> Make a forest out of trees from Bend, OR.

> Create a Brazilian rainforest.

> Generate a forest of trees that could be found in the high dessert.

And foliager will generate a list of trees that can be found in that climate/city/region.

# Real Calculations
This program expands on work being done with the forest growth model, [3-PG](https://3pg.forestry.ubc.ca/). That is to say, after a list of trees is generated, the growth for each individual tree in the simulation is calculated based on real scientific formulas for tree growth. Not only is 3-PG reimplemented in Python for this project, but it also serves as a visual platform for the growth model.

# Real Data... kind of
Foliager pulls from real, scientific data and values for trees used in this project... for the most part. Because this project relies on flexibility of allowing a user to generate a forest with any type of tree, 

# Creating the trees

# In Unreal Engine

The main idea of this project is to be able to 